# Problems with var keyword

One of the biggest problems with declaring variables with the `var` keyword is that you can overwrite variable declarations without an error

```js
var camper = 'James';
var camper = 'David';
console.log(camper);
// logs 'David'
```

In a small application, you might not run into this type of problem, but when your code becomes larger, you might accidently overwrite a variable that you did not intend to overwrite. Because this behaviour does not throw an error, searching and fixing bugs becomes more difficult.

Another problem with the `var` keyword is that it is **hoisted** to the top of your code when it compiles

* This means that you can use a variable before you declare it.

```
console.log(camper);
var camper = 'David';
// logs undefined
```

The code runs in the following order:

1. The variable camper is declared as undefined.
2. The value of camper is logged.
3. David is assigned to camper.

This code will run without an error.

A new keyword called `let` was introduced in ES6 to solve the problems with the `var` keyword. With the `let` keyword, all the examples we just saw will cause an error to appear

* We can no longer overwrite variables or use a variable before we declare it
* Some modern browsers require you to add **"use strict"**; to the top of your code before you can use the new features of ES6

## Compare Scopes of the var and let Keywords
When you declare a variable with the `var` keyword, it is declared globally, or locally if declared inside a function.

The `let` keyword behaves similarly, but with some extra features. When you declare a variable with the `let` keyword inside a block, statement, or expression, its **scope** is limited to that block, statement, or expression.

For example:

```js
var numArray = [];
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
// returns [0, 1, 2]
console.log(i);
// returns 3
```

With the var keyword, `i` is declared globally. So when `i++` is executed, it updates the global variable. This code is similiar to the following:

```js
var numArray = [];
var i;
for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
// returns [0, 1, 2]
console.log(i);
// returns 3
```

This behavior will cause problems if you were to create a function and store it for later use inside a for loop that uses the `i` variable. This is because the stored function will always refer to the value of the updated global `i` variable.

```js
var printNumTwo;
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if(i === 2){
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
// returns 3
```

As you can see, `printNumTwo()` prints 3 and not 2. This is because the value assigned to `i` was updated and the `printNumTwo()` returns the global `i` and not the value `i` had when the function was created in the for loop. The `let` keyword does not follow this behavior:

```
'use strict';
let printNumTwo;
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
// returns 2
console.log(i);
// returns "i is not defined"
```

`i` is not defined because it was not declared in the global scope. It is only declared within the `for` loop statement. `printNumTwo()` returned the correct value because three different `i` variables with unique values `(0, 1, and 2)` were created by the `let` keyword within the **loop** statement

## Declare a Read-Only Variable with the const Keyword
`let` is not the only new way to declare variables. In ES6, you can also declare variables using the `const` keyword.

`const` has all the awesome features that `let` has, with the added bonus that variables declared using `const` are **read-only**. They are a constant value, which means that once a variable is assigned with `const`, it cannot be reassigned.

```js
"use strict"
const FAV_PET = "Cats";
FAV_PET = "Dogs"; // returns error
```

As you can see, trying to reassign a variable declared with `const` will throw an error. You should always name variables you don't want to reassign using the `const` keyword. This helps when you accidentally attempt to reassign a variable that is meant to stay constant. A common practice is to name your constants in all upper-cases and with an underscore to separate words (e.g. EXAMPLE_VARIABLE).


Change the code so that all variables are declared using `let` or `const`. Use `let` when you want the variable to change, and `const` when you want the variable to remain constant. Also, rename variables declared with `const` to conform to common practices.

**note**

Don't forget to add **"use strict";** to the top of your code.

## Mutate an Array Declared with const
The `const` declaration has many use-cases in modern JavaScript.

Some developers prefer to assign all their variables using `const` by default, unless they know they will need to reassign the value. Only in that case, they use `let`.

However, it is important to understand that objects (including arrays and functions) assigned to a variable using `const` are still mutable. Using the `const` declaration only prevents reassignment of the variable identifier.

```
"use strict";
const s = [5, 6, 7];
s = [1, 2, 3]; // throws error, trying to assign a const
s[7] = 45; // works just as it would with an array declared with var
```

As you can see, you can mutate the object ([5, 6, 7]) itself and the variable identifier (s) will still point to the altered array. Like all arrays, the array assigned to `s` is mutable, but because `const` was used, you cannot use the variable identifier, `s`, to point to a different array using the assignment operator.

To make an object immutable, you can use `Object.freeze()`

## Use Arrow Functions to Write Concise Anonymous Functions
In JavaScript, we often don't need to name our functions, especially when passing a function as an argument to another function. Instead, we create inline functions. We don't need to name these functions because we do not reuse them anywhere else.

To achieve this, we often use the following syntax:

```js
const myFunc = function() {
  const myVar = "value";
  return myVar;
}
```

ES6 provides us with the syntactic sugar to not have to write anonymous functions this way. Instead, you can use **arrow function** syntax:

const myFunc = () => {
  const myVar = "value";
  return myVar;
}
When there is no function body, and only a return value, arrow function syntax allows you to **omit the keyword return** a**s well as the brackets surrounding the code**. This helps simplify smaller functions into one-line statements:

```js
const myFunc= () => "value"
```

This code will still return value by default.

## Write Arrow Functions with Parameters
Just like a normal function, you can pass arguments into arrow functions.

```js
// doubles input value and returns it
const doubler = (item) => item * 2;
```

You can pass more than one argument into arrow functions as well.

## Write Higher Order Arrow Functions
Arrow functions work really well with higher order functions, such as `map()`, `filter()`, and `reduce()`, that take other functions as arguments for processing collections of data.

```js
FBPosts.filter(function(post) {
  return post.thumbnail !== null && post.shares > 100 && post.likes > 500;
})
```

We have written this with `filter()` to at least make it somewhat readable. Now compare it to the following code which uses arrow function syntax instead:

```js
FBPosts.filter((post) => post.thumbnail !== null && post.shares > 100 && post.likes > 500)
```

This code is more succinct and accomplishes the same task with fewer lines of code.
